README.md, before:

# sediment-ml
Nearshore image classification

# Getting Started

- Install poetry, a python package and virtual environment manager
  - on macOS: `brew install poetry`
- Clone this repository
- Navigate into the repository
- Run the command `poetry install` to set up the virtual environment

# Running scripts

- After setting up the environment with `poetry` (see "Getting Started"), you can run a script like this:
  - run the command `poetry run python path/to/script.py

# Running notebooks
- After setting up the environment, you can launch Jupyter Notebook from within the environment like this:
  - run the command `poetry run jupyter notebook`

# Script Information

## `scripts/coastline_tile_pipeline.py`

This script does the following: Given a .tif file and a shapefile bundle with coastline information that spans the region of the .tif file, this script will
- tile the .tif into NxN regions (default=512x512 pixels),
- determine which of these regions intersect the coastline
- convert the intersecting regions to PNGs and save these files
- create a map image showing the intersecting tiles as PNGs and the coastline contour, along with the .tif boundary

Example output from this script can be seen in `examples/coastline_tiles_plot.png`.

Commit message:

updated README with information about 'adjacent' pipeline and example output

README.md, after:

# sediment-ml
Nearshore image classification

# Getting Started

- Install poetry, a python package and virtual environment manager
  - on macOS: `brew install poetry`
- Clone this repository
- Navigate into the repository
- Run the command `poetry install` to set up the virtual environment

# Running scripts

- After setting up the environment with `poetry` (see "Getting Started"), you can run a script like this:
  - run the command `poetry run python path/to/script.py`

# Running notebooks
- After setting up the environment, you can launch Jupyter Notebook from within the environment like this:
  - run the command `poetry run jupyter notebook`

# Script Information

## `scripts/coastline_tile_pipeline.py`

This script does the following: Given a .tif file and a shapefile bundle with coastline information that spans the region of the .tif file, this script will
- tile the .tif into NxN regions (default=512x512 pixels);
- determine which of these regions intersect the coastline;
- convert the intersecting regions to PNGs and save these files;
- create a map image showing the intersecting tiles as PNGs and the coastline contour, along with the .tif boundary

Example output from this script can be seen in `examples/coastline_tiles_plot.png`.

## `scripts/coastline_tile_pipeline_adjacent.py`

This script does the following: Given a .tif and a shapefile bundle with coastline information that spans the region of the .tif file, this script will
- tile the .tif in NxN regions (default=512x512 pixels),
- determine which of these regions intersect the coastline,
- determine which of the regions *adjacent to* intersecting regions are *not* contained within the landmass,
- convert the intersecting regions and adjacent, non-land regions to PNGs and save these files,
- create a map image showing the intersecting tiles as red-boundary PNGs, the adjacent non-land tiles as orange-boundary PNGs, and the coastline contour as a blue line, along with the .tif boundary as a black line

Example output from this script can be seen in `examples/coastline_tiles_plot_extended.png`.
